- Factory Design Pattern:
In the factory design pattern we have a super class with multiple subclasses and based on some input, we need to return a particular subclass. It is often used when a class cannot anticipate the type of objects it needs to create beforehand. Here, instantiation of a class is done from the factory class. So when we need to create the object based on particular input this pattern is used. So does it related to automation test design?This design pattern is best suited to when you are working with Android and iOS and both having the same accessibility id on iOS and content-desc in Android. So here the Factory class will create the relevant driver object (either Android or iOS) and always returns a newly created object or re-initialized one, so you don’t have to check the platform every time.

- Facade Pattern:
The Facade pattern provides a simple interface to deal with complex code.In the facade pattern, as applied to test automation, we design the facade class which has methods that combine actions executed on different pages. It is best to understand by looking at a practical example:

- Singleton Pattern:
A Singleton class means only one instance of it can exist at any time.  Well it is very useful in a case when you need to use the same object across the whole framework. A Singleton class returns the same instance every time you try to instantiate an instance of the class. Think of it providing global access to a single object, for example, the log file object. Creating a singleton class consists of: